---
layout: post
title: "Getting Started With Github Pages"
categories: "Blogging"
excerpt: Get started with a Github Pages blog using Jekyll and Octopress 3.
tags: [Blog, Jekyll, Octopress, Git, Github]
image:
  feature: messiah-college-flower.jpg
---

<section id="table-of-contents" class="toc">
  <header>
    <h3>Overview</h3>
  </header>
<div id="drawer" markdown="1">
*  Auto generated table of contents
{:toc}
</div>
</section><!-- /#table-of-contents -->

Progressive Tutelage is hosted as a Github Pages user site. As such, it is a static HTML blog generated by Jekyll. I found several good tutorials on setting up a Github blog, but they usually stopped once the site was created. They didn't describe how to keep going with Jekyll. Once I started looking for a theme, I noticed that a lot of themes use Octopress. Instructions on getting things going with the themes were harder to find. Then after I choose a theme, I realized it is using a new version of Octopress and there is hardly any documentation about Octopress 3. After some work, I finally got everything together and working. So here is how I did it.

A Github Pages site is a special git repository on Github that contains your blog. You can put static HTML pages in the repository or you can use Jekyll to build the site. Every time a change on the master branch is pushed to Github, the repository is run through Jekyll to build the site. It is a great way to easily build a site you have full control over.

## Setup Your Github Repository

The first thing you need it to get your site's repository set up on Github.com. A Github Pages site is just a special git repository hosted on Github.com. For a user site, you must create the repository with the following name, replacing username with your Github username: `username.github.io`. For example, I created a repository named `jpangborn.github.io`.

Now you have a Github Pages repository.

## Clone the Repository

You will most likely want to work on your blog on you computer, not on Github.com, so you will want to clone the repository. You could use Github for Windows or Github for Mac to clone the repository, but I prefer the command line. Most tutorials give you the basic Git clone command, but you end up with a folder named `username.github.io`. I don't find that very friendly to work with. So I used the following git command to clone the repository

    git clone git://github.com/jpangborn/jpangborn.github.io Blog

You will need to replace `jpangborn` with your username. The `Blog` at the end is the directory where the repository will be cloned. You can use any name you like here.